Hi everybody.
Welcome back.
Now instead of breaking out of a loop as we did in previous lecture you can use the continue statement
to return to the beginning of the loop based on the result of a conditional test.
So let's have a look at a quick example.
So I'm still my idol code editor.
So let's have a look.
Current number equals zero.
So we've seen this before.
So while our current number
is less than 10 due to following current number plus one
if the current number
this is one of the beautiful things that I like about Python is that when you're writing your programs
it's very readable.
It's almost like writing for a person just to sit down and read without knowing any pite because as
you can see here this code is very user friendly.
If you're coming at this from a blank slate.
So if number modulars to
0 continue
and then print the current number that's saved us and let's run it.
10.
So there we go.
So what we've done here is we've set a current number to zero.
And while the current number is less than 10 I'd keep adding one so continuously add one.
So if the current number is much less what is the current number much less to 0 continue.
So here we go so we keep looping back to the start of our program and we print out a current number.
Now while loop needs a way to stop running order wise it'll run forever.
So in the last few lectures we've seen different examples of how to stop and break while loops.
So whenever you get a program that keeps running and running and running and he can't seem to do anything
with it or he can find the error go back and check your wire loops because it is possible that you've
created an infinite loop that won't stop running.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.